>> Jon Kuperman: Step-through debugging.
So this came up at the beginning as one of
the really cool things you can do with dev
tools that really takes you to a level
beyond what you can do with like
console statements or something like that.
So, how many people are familiar at a high
level with this idea of step-through
debugging?
Maybe in a different programming language,
or something with like break points and,
okay, at least some familiarity.
So there's some core concepts to it.
But essentially, especially people
that come from non-web languages
probably are used to a built-in IDE.
If you're working on Java or
C++, something like that, and
you can pause the application.
You can step in and out of functions and
kind of see all of the things,
all the scope, and
all the stuff available, and
visualize the call stack
how you got there.
So it's a lot of information,
as opposed to in a console log,
you get a very small amount of
information, like was here.
Hello, whatever, hello, too, whatever,
I don't know how you all debug,
that's how I debug.
So you get a lot of this stuff.
So the core concepts are you can start and
stop the debugger.
So once you're kind of done,
you can stop it, or you can turn it on.
You can set break points
anywhere that you'd like.
You can do that via your IDE,
via Chrome Dev Tools, or
via the code, which we'll go into.
And then once you hit a point, which is
like, basically Google is telling you,
hey, I'm about to execute this next line,
I'm stuck on this.
You have some options so
you can if it calls into a function,
you can step into that function, and
we'll cover this video visually you can
say, I don't care about that function.
Step over it to the next line, you can
just do a step, which is if it goes in,
it goes in, if it goes over,
it goes over, that's fine.
But the important thing,
the thing that this cannot do, and
the important thing to remember
is that it is not time traveling.
And what I mean by that is
it allows you to pause and
inspect as it goes through its execution
flow, but there is no going back, right?
You cannot going back as you restart and
you do the app all over again.
So you can step out of something.
So, if you're on line two and you go
into a function, you can step out, but
you're gonna step out to line three.
You can't go back in time,
cuz it's not a state machine.
Now, there are some really cool tools,
if what you require is time traveling.
For example, there's a tool replay.io, and
what replay.io does is it captures like
a full binary session of everything.
And that allows you to go backwards and
forwards, which is really nice, but
it requires you to
record it in such a way.
In the dev tools or in VSCode, when you
set a breakpoint, you can step into, over,
you cannot go back.
So I think that's just
the important thing.
I mean, you can always refresh and
get there again, but
you can't go back in a debugger.
Cool, that makes sense?
It's kind of high level, so pausing,
but not time traveling, all right?
So let's look at the lesson of
step-through debugging together, and
then we'll go into a workshop.